Okay, Kadev's and Nicholas Church, 22nd of March, 2019, George Arrakas interview.
That's interview number five, I think.
So, let me put some light there to see what's going on.
Yes, tell me, where is the light?
Here it is, there are the lights.
Yes, put it there.
No.
Ah, we saw how it was.
Here is our church, here.
So, our church.
It's two different churches.
This one is from 1960.
That's St. Mary's.
St. Mary's, so that's our church is there.
So, behind the church is the canal.
Yes, that's it, canal.
And this way is Bute Street.
Exactly, yes, Bute Street.
That way, okay.
Now then, about here, the first place that I know, there was a cafe called the Global Cafe.
There.
Global Cafe.
Okay, that's it, they had it in Cyprus.
Okay, they had it in Cyprus.
So, let me turn it around a little bit.
So, this is Bute Street, this is it.
That's the canal.
There was a bridge there.
Here, about here, these shops, most of them were Greek.
And here were two Greek shops.
Here was, let's say, the Lambro, the bakery.
Lambro, I guess.
Yes, Lambro, it was Spiros Lambro.
Okay.
Next to it was Maroukos, which had a cafe.
Yes.
The one that made the bakaliko at the end of it.
There I learned, there I first walked there, to Maroukos, to the cafe.
So, where are we now?
Here, at the end of the block, here, it was again, Lambro opened it in another bakaliko.
These bakalikas sold olives, Greek products, I don't know, pasta, which didn't exist then, these years.
The eggless, I don't know what it was, spaghetti, you understand?
I called it paschetti.
So, in this block was Sofia's cafe.
Here, let me tell you, about here, was Sofia's.
Okay?
There, Sofia went to the cafe, all the sailors were gathered,
and in Maroukos, all the sailors were gathered, and they went, I don't know, and they were saying, I don't know, their own, let's say, the sailors, I don't know, the others.
Where am I? Here, this is Sofia's.
So, there, all the sailors were gathered after the church, all the captains, those who came, instead of being here in the church, they went there.
And it was Sofia and Christos. I think it was her daughter.
I think.
A little further down, there was a fish and chips restaurant, which had it, a boy, a boy, had it, and then they took it, something, I think, I don't remember his name, I can't tell you.
Yes, after that, there was another cafe, which was owned by George, and all the Cypriots went there and played poker.
I remember my father's village.
And next to it was Michalis Asprou.
I don't know if you've heard of Asprou Travel?
Yes.
That was his father.
George Asprou, what's his relationship with him?
His son.
Michalis Asprou.
Michalis Asprou had a small shop there, and he sold various things, it was like a con-shop.
And he was married, my aunt was married, a cousin of my father, who was still alive.
And they had this shop, I don't know how many years, I don't know, since 1952, they took this shop.
And all the other shops were before and after the war, Sofia's war, I'm telling you.
And yes, that was it, then they took the next shop and did it twice, but the next shop was a newsagent, who bought it.
So we said, there were the cafes, this is this, and here was the channel, where is the channel?
There is the channel.
I remember it, that's the bridge, there is still this bridge there, and I have a photo there, I can send it to you.
And there was a pilaria, and opposite was a pilaria, and you go down, and there were the back parts of the church here.
And when we got to the church, what is this place, here was the West Canal and the East Canal.
Here, here was water.
Yes, yes, that's the Clamorca Canal.
So the West Canal, the wharf, was, you came here and you came to pass from here and you went down to the church from here, you didn't come from there.
So, here, which is called Crichton Street, and I don't know, were some houses, which were, I tell you, all the Greek community was there, they lived there, around, you understand?
And here were the houses, which I told you, that had a camera in a ship, I don't know, this, you understand?
This is it, here, here on Crichton Street.
And the same thing was happening in Paris.
There were also, how do you say it, boarding houses in Paris, because in Paris, Greeks were gathering, there was something like this.
That's it, that's it.
And down here, in George, there was another, in James Street, another church, which had it, Jimmy the Greek, I don't remember his name.
Yes, James Street.
And in George Street, there was, yes, there was the Calhounic, there was the, how do you say it, the Ship's Channels, which was also in George Street.
Okay, I got, when I found Calhounic in the bibliography.
Okay.
He was once a president, many years here, and he was also a famous poet.
Yes.
What can I say?
Down here, in the lower part of Bute Street, where are we, James Street.
That's West Bute.
West Bute, another.
That's West Bute, and that's the actual Bute Street.
And here, this part here, I think, I don't know exactly where it was, but before 1950 and the war, because the war was very Greek here, very, very Greek here, and they left after Greece was liberated.
Here were the Ship's Channels, the messengers who, I don't know how you say it in Greek, were the dissidents, the messengers, the
Yes, but they moved the pictures from here, when the port fell here, they went to...
I have spoken with the captain, he told me that he spoke with the sailor and he told me, because then the port was closed.
Of course, and it's down there.
No, I spoke with the sailor and he told me that he spoke with the sailor, the sailor was a philosopher, he could speak to me later, so he could tell me about the pictures.
Oh, nice, nice.
And I also spoke with the sailor, who sent me some information, he sent me some pictures.
The sailor has no more pictures.
He has no more pictures.
I don't know his name.
As a philologist, I don't know him from before, because in Greece he has even more pictures.
He was a philologist, and he was a philologist, he was the one whose son gave him 15,000 people in the church yesterday.
Yes.
Do we have a contact with philologists?
No, not with the ship.
But do they have any old photographs?
No, they must have.
This one was usually in Paris.
This was the painting.
I don't think I had a copy of the painting.
I don't know, I don't think so.
The pigmalion that is on the plaque, he was a firefighter and he was a priest in the church.
This is the man who was on the plaque.
He was the captain.
The
people who started the war, most of them were Cassiopeians, Antiochians, and the Cypriots.
The Cypriots came after the war.
Kostas, look.
Thank you very much.
No, I don't know.
No, that's exactly what I wanted.
I wish I knew more.
If I didn't want a father who was in my life, I would have told you there.
He would have educated you there.
No, it's a joy to gather.
That's exactly what we want to do.
We want to make a map.
Where we can put the census.
If you go to the census.
1911 is it?
1901 is it?
I'm looking the director.
I think you might find stuff in the census.
It was a George Andriadis.
Remember when I told you that it was the Cypriots who had the coffee house?
I think before they took it and made it coffee house, it was a George Andriadis there.
The Cypriots were rafters.
They sold on the steamships.
Wherever there was a steamer, they went there with their jacket and shoes.
Because they didn't know how to speak.
They went on the steamer and spoke.
In the meantime, I remember something else.
Down here, where are we?
In the Beaux Street.
I don't remember the Beaux Street again.
Where we talked about the lamp.
Where is it for the lamp?
And the lamp here.
Here was a brewery called the White Heart.
This brewery was owned by a Greek.
I think that the father of the Greek,
his father had married a Yugoslava.
Because the Greek was half Yugoslav and half Greek.
He was Greek, that is, he was educated in Greece.
They had the brewery here,
as you enter the Beaux Street, left.
I don't know if this brewery exists now.
I think they have it.
Not the one that was here, in the corner where there are some photos.
Not this one.
You will go to the beginning of Beaux Street, where the hotel is.
There you will go a little further.
I don't know if this brewery still exists.
But this was owned by a Yugoslav.
And the daughter of the Yugoslav took the future shipbroker.
It was not a shipbroker.
It was a shipbroker.
Correct.
Ship-chandler.
Yes, it was a ship-chandler.
He took the ship-chandler
and his daughter Mary married the ship-chandler.
And his son Antonis Kalinikos
was educated in Greece.
And he was a priest from 1964 until 1985.
He closed the church.
Because until then all the port had fallen.
There was once a Greek port-captain.
Port-captain, that is, when the Greek ship was sailing in the Carinthia,
they went to the port-captain, the port-captain,
who was a...
who was a port-captain?
I don't remember.
There was a office here that was Greek,
Greek servants who worked for the Greek state.
They would hit the ships, the captains were in charge, I don't know.
Yannis Kinios was the port-captain.
He was a slave.
I don't know what he did, but he was also a nun.
You understand?
They were the ones who left.
Around 1960 they all left.
Kalinikos remained, who had the ship-chandler.
The then-prisoner died.
He is in the...
There is a plaque on it.
He was a lawyer, Dimitrios the lawyer.
I don't know if you have heard of him.
He remained...
He was a prisoner from 1915 until 1964.
Because then, when it was in 1917, when there was a riot
between the Venizelians and the royalists,
he was in the middle.
There was a riot here.
Yes, there was a riot here.
They took out guns.
It was a lot.
Yes, yes, a big riot.
This was the plaque.
When you see this book, you will see Dimitrios the lawyer.
These are also photos.
And you will find a lot of information.
Because there are books, there is a book.
There is a painting.
On the top, there is the Pope.
With the baptisms, the chalices, all these three lines.
This will be very useful if you look at it at some point.
It's not a problem.
There is no problem.
I will show it to you.
Just sit for two or three hours and you will get information.
Thank you very much.
Please, if I could do more, I would do it.
If there is any old photo,
from any exhibition,
I just want to take a photo of it and scan it.
If you have something, if you know.
I just found a photo.
A priest who came here,
he was a priest and became Archimandriti.
But before he became married,
he had 4-5 daughters.
I don't know if you saw this photo.
It should be on the church's Facebook.
I will try to find it.
Give me the...
Are you on Facebook?
I will send you everything through...
My name is George Amarkas.
Send me this and I will become your friend.
I am Konstantinos.
Whatever you send me, I will accept it.
And whatever I find, I will send it to you.
Thank you very much.
I am glad that there are people who are interested.
How do you say?
History remains alive.